Let's now use
a third-party middleware function
from npm called Morgan
in order to make our development life a bit easier.
So, as I mentioned, we're gonna use a middleware
called Morgan which is a very popular logging middleware.
So, a middleware that's gonna allow us to see request data
right in the console.
Okay, so let me go ahead and install it
and you will then see how that works, okay?
So, I don't want to now finish this process here,
so I'm gonna create a new terminal here in VS Code
and so, for that I hit this plus button here
and so, now we get a new terminal
and I don't want to update,
so no, and now npm install morgan.
Okay, now as I mentioned,
this logging middleware
is gonna make our development life a bit easier.
But it still is code
that we will actually include in our application
and so, that's why it's not a development dependency
but just a simple regular dependency,
okay and so, that's why I didn't specify save dev here
because again, it's not a dev dependency really.
Okay, so we have it in our package.json here now, morgan
and so, let's go ahead and require it in our code.
So, again right at the top here const morgan
equals require morgan
and you see again this kind of convention
that the require is gonna expose
if you use the same name as the package name itself.
So, we have our middlewares here,
so let's add it right after this
or actually write as the first one.
Okay, and source code is growing a little bit,
so let's actually go ahead
and add some comments here,
so first middlewares,
then down here we start having our route handlers.
Right, then here let's just say we have our routes.
And then finally down here
we start the server.
Okay, just to make our code a bit more readable
and easier to scan.
So, we have this first middleware
but again let's use ours before that.
So, of course app.use
and now in here we call morgan.
Okay and into this function,
we can pass an argument
which will kind of specify
how we want the logging to look like.
So, we can use some predefined strings for that
and the one that I'm gonna use is called dev.
And actually you can see here the different options
so VS Code is really smart
and can give me the options
that we can pass into this function.
Okay, so as I mentioned,
I'm gonna use the one called dev.
Okay and so that's actually it.
So, we required it
and then here we used it.
So, very simple stuff
but I think it's important
to actually try to understand how this works.
So, calling this morgan function
will return a function similar to this one here
and so, that makes sense
because while this is how a middleware function
has to look like and so, let me actually prove that to you
by looking at the source code
for this package
and that's another very nice exercise
from which we can actually learn quite a bit.
So, let's search for morgan on GitHub,
so usually all these packages are always on GitHub
and so, that's where we can then look
at their open source code.
Okay and morgan is actually a very simple package
and so, all we have to do is to go to this index.js file,
so usually that is the entry point
and in this case, it's kind of the only file that there is.
Okay, now, I'm not gonna over all of this code
but I want to highlight that the main export
from this file here is morgan,
so a function called morgan,
so let's look for that
and actually here it is.
Okay, and so when we required the package in our code,
what will get returned is this morgan function, right?
Again because they use module.export
and that is the default export just like we learned
in the requiring modules lecture one section
or two sections ago, right?
So, again this morgan function here
will be this morgan function here in this code, okay?
So, let's see what this function does
and I don't care about any of this implementation here,
what I really wanted to show you
is that this function actually returns another function
which is the logger
and you see that this function just has
our own middleware functions
has this very typical signature of request,
response and next.
Okay?
So, this function is just like our own middleware functions.
And so, you see that actually in the end
when it's ready, it also calls next,
so just like we do.
So, it's just a very regular middleware function
just like the ones that we write.
Okay?
So, let's go back here
and let's now actually see the result here in our terminal,
so let's go back to that first one,
so this is how we switch between
the different terminals that we have open in VS Code.
Give us some more space here,
actually clear this out
because you might not be able to see the bottom
of the screen so well.
And so yeah, let's now go ahead
and simply create some request,
all right, go back and here we go.
So, we have the information about the request
that we just did.
So, we get the HTTP method,
we get the URL, we get the status code,
the time it took to send back the response
and also the size of the response in bytes.
So, remember we could have used another option here,
for example, tiny was another one,
so that would then probably look a bit different
and it actually looks kind of similar here.
It simply doesn't do this coloring
of this status code
and also it has a slightly different order here.
Okay and if we did something,
if we caused an error, for example, a 404,
let's test that out by using an invalid ID here,
so that will then get another color here,
right, you can see that?
Let's do that again just in case you didn't see it.
And so, yeah, it gives us a different color.
And so, yeah, that can be quite useful for development.
You could actually even save this log
to a file but that's a bit too much
for this small example,
so this is more than enough
and you will see throughout the course
that it's kind of useful to actually have it here.
Okay, this is how we use third-party middleware
from npm and there is a lot of middleware on there
and let me actually show that to you.
So, on the Express site itself,
so expressjs.com and we actually never visited this website,
so it's actually quite nice,
so you have this Getting started
with a couple of articles explaining the basics
of Express and then you have a nice API reference
in our case, 4.x and so, here you have all of the methods
that are on the request,
so methods on properties of course,
so all of this stuff that we have,
for example, requests.body that we already used
or here on the response,
you have, for example, response.json
or response.send
and there's a bunch of other methods
and we will use many of them later on
but then here you have these resources
and the one that I wanna show you
is middleware and so, this is a bunch of middleware
that you can use
and that Express recommends, okay?
And again, we will use some of them a bit later
and actually Express recommends these
because many of these used to be built in in Express 3,
so in a previous version
but were then taken out of Express.
For example, body.parser is one of them
but actually in version four point,
I believe 14 or 16, it was added back
and so that's why we were able to do let's see,
where is it?
Yeah, that's why we were able to use expression.json
in order to parse the data from the body.
Before that, we actually would have to use the body.parser
from npm and use that one to parse the data from the body
but again, they just recently added it back
to reduce the confusion a bit for beginners like yourself.
Okay, so play around a little bit
with this reference.
Take a look at some of the stuff
maybe that we already did if you feel like it
or if not, you can always just move on
right to the next video.